---
title: Circularity - Detail level
layout: page
show_sidebar: false
menubar: faq-nav
ref: circularity-learn-more
permalink: /circularity-learn-more
lang: en
---

## Circularity score
The higher the durability of the products and materials used in a building, the higher the value of the data that is stored on the Madaster Platform. The Circularity Indicator has been developed to assign circularity scores to buildings. The Madaster Circularity Indicator is a measure for the degree of circularity of a building. A fully circular building gets a score of 100%.

The Circularity Indicator assesses the building during 3 stages: the materials to realize the building (proportion of new versus reused materials), the lifespan of the building (compared to the average lifespan) and the way products and materials are processed at the end of its lifespan (proportion of reuse/ recycling versus disposal to a landfill or incinerator).

The Madaster Circularity Indicator is based on the international open source Material Circularity Indicator (MCI) of the Ellen MacArthur Foundation. Click here for more information.

The Circularity Indicator is still in its development phase, and has low to medium reliability due to the limited amount of information currently available from the uploaded source files.

## External sources
There are numerous external sources with detailed information on products and materials used in buildings. This information is of great value for the reuse of materials and products in the future.

In the future, more and more databases will be linked to Madaster making all recorded data (new, as well as older data) available in one central location: the Madaster Platform.

If you click on the logo of an external source, the website of the database in question is opened in a new window. Are you interested in linking your database to Madaster? Then,contact Madaster.

## Current status
The information shown by the Circularity Indicator is based on the active source files that have been uploaded for this building. The table indicates the value of the circularity score, and is vertically subdivided into three circularity phases, with the circularity score at the top. In addition to the vertical subdivision, there is a horizontal subdivision into the six different building layers.

The circularity assessment on the Madaster Platform is still under development. The current results, which are shown here, have a low level of reliability. As soon as the circularity results are reliable, it will be communicated (here).

## Developments to watch
The circularity process on the Madaster Platform is still under development. Below is a summary of the aim of the various phases within the circularity process, and of the steps to be taken to make the results more reliable. In the coming period, we will be working very hard to achieve this. As soon as we have more news, it will be communicated here.

**Phase 1: The construction phase**

* **Aim:** 100% of materials from reuse
* **Current calculation:** dynamic values ​​for recycling / reuse percentages at product and material level. Besides the Madaster Database (data on material categories and there with calculated on products) there is the possibility to manually manage and evaluate the inserted data based on practical knowledge.

**Development**
* Step 1: linking external sources for recycling and reuse percentages
* Step 2: develop a circular BIM Information Delivery Manual, which specifies how the information is included in the source file
* Step 3: adding waste from the production of materials, products and buildings.

**Phase 2: The use phase**

* **Aim:** maximizing the functional lifespan and use period for circular products
* **Current calculation:** the starting point for the current industry average lifetime are the Layers of Brand (site (500 yrs), structure (100 yrs), skin (20 yrs), services (15 yrs), space plan (10 yrs)) and stuff (5 yrs.)). For the current average life span, the starting point is the lifetime that has been filled in by the user at building level. This can be adjusted at product level (possibility).

**Development**
* Step 1: in-depth information on functional, technical, economic and architectural lifespan in relation to the use and consumption of materials, products and buildings.
* Step 2: monitoring the lifespans of products and materials for individual buildings through time.

**Phase 3: The end-of-life phase**

* **Aim:** 100% (high- or low-quality) reuse of released materials and products
* **Current calculation:** dynamic values for recycle / reuse percentages at product and material level. In addition to the Madaster Database (recorded data on material categories and passed on in products), it is possible to enrich values manually on the basis of practical knowledge. The waste generated by the recycling process is also included in the calculation.

**Development**
* Step 1: linking external sources for recycling and reuse percentages and recycling efficiency values.
* Step 2: develop a circular BIM Information Delivery Manual, which specifies how the information is included in the source file.
* Step 3: development of a method that makes it possible to make an estimate for the Design for Disassembly (stimulation of high-quality reuse) and Design for Recycling (stimulation of low-value reuse) on the basis of the uploaded source file.
Work on the realization of Steps 2 and 3 is expected in the remainder of 2019/2020.

In the future, the reliability of the Circularity Indicator will still depend on quality of the source information that is uploaded. A source file with a high level of detail influences the quality of the indicator to a great extent.